Hello everyone. Welcome to
the third video in the
Environmental Mapping Module.
In this video, we will cover
the autonomous vehicle-specific
requirements to convert
a Lidar scan into
a filtered representation that
can be used to create
an occupancy grid.
We will first look at
several filtering methods which
must be applied to the 3D Scan.
Then we will see how
a 3D Lidar scan is
projected down to the 2D Space
and converted into a belief map.
Finally, we will
discuss the tuning of
several parameters required to
make accurate occupancy grids.
So let's get started.
Here we have a typical
Lidar scan acquired by
the autonomous vehicle as it
drives along of local road.
We will highlight several
filters that must be applied to
the Lidar scan before it can be
used to populate
an occupancy grid.
First, in order to make
update operations
run in real-time,
it is usually desirable
to downsample
the number of points of a Lidar
scan to a smaller amount.
Second, to remove objects
that don't affect driving,
we filter out all Lidar points
which are above
the autonomous car.
Third, we do not want to
label the drivable
surfaces occupied.
So we remove all
Lidar points which have
hit the drivable surface
or ground plane.
This drivable surface comes from
the perception modules which
you studied in course three.
Finally, we remove
all dynamic or moving
objects such as cars or
pedestrians that are in motion,
again relying on
the Perception stack
to identify their locations.
Downsampling is the process of
reducing the number
of Lidar points to be
considered by removing or
ignoring redundant Lidar points.
Common Lidar used in
autonomous driving can
produce up to 1.2
million points every
second which provide
very rich geometric descriptions
of all the objects
around the vehicle.
Many of the generated points are
actually redundant however due to
the fact that there
are many points that
surround them capturing
the same object information.
In this example, we see
a road sign that is densely
covered in Lidar points
where a small fraction of
the points would suffice to
indicate the location of
the obstacle for
Occupancy Grid Mapping.
Most importantly, it
is computationally
impractical to deal with
the 1.2 million points.
The second, that some points
must be removed to
improve computations for
all future operations.
Downsampling can be performed
in a variety of ways.
The simplest of which is to use
a systematic filter that keeps
every nth point along
the Lidar scan ring.
It is also possible to apply
image downsampling techniques in
the range image and to search
spatially in a 3D grid replacing
collections of points with
a single occupancy measurement.
In each case, these methods are
readily available in open source
Point Cloud Libraries such as
PCL or computer vision
libraries such as OpenCV.
Our second filter is
a trivial one which
simply removes points
above the vehicle height.
In this case, above 2.4 meters.
This filter usually presumes
a flat ground plane however,
and so you should be
aware that this is
a dangerous assumption
to apply blindly.
That value of eliminating
overhanging trees,
wires, bridges,
and signs is significant however
so it is worth including
in this discussion.
The next filter involves
removing points that
are deemed to fall on
the drivable surface.
Due to the nature
of the Lidar scan,
many of the concentric circles
seen in this image
are due to the Lidar scan
hitting the drivable surface.
These points should
not be confused with
occupied cells in
the Occupancy Grid Map.
However, this proves to be
a challenging task as
several complications arise.
First off, all roads have
different road
geometries including
variable concavity for drainage,
different slopes and bank
angles, curvatures, et cetera.
This change is also very
difficult to predict.
However, if the
ground plane is not
removed the occupancy grid
might have artifacts which can
result in deadlock in
which the car cannot
continue driving as it believes
the roadway is blocked.
The second problem is that
curbs have different heights at
different locations and
road boundaries are
not always clearly
defined in Lidar data.
These variations can lead
to parts of the curbs or
non-drivable areas being removed
as parts of the ground plane.
Finally, the need to
detect small objects on
the road such as a soccer ball
or a turtle means
that simple geometric methods
working on point clouds
have a hard time resolving
the true state of
the roadway ahead.
The best approach to
dealing with this sort of
issue is to take
advantage of vision,
and deep neural networks through
semantic segmentation as you
studied in course three.
This can be seen in
the segmented image in
which the ground plane
is shown in dark purple.
The task then
becomes a mapping of
the drivable surface detected
in the vision data to
the Lidar Point Cloud
masking out all those points
that fall within
the projected boundaries
of the drivable surface.
The final filter that is
required is the removal of
all dynamic objects such as
moving cars or pedestrians.
This can be done once
again with the reliance on
the perception stack
which must detect
and track all dynamic
objects in the scene.
The 3D bounding box of
the detected dynamic
object is used
to remove all the points
in the affected area.
A small threshold
is also added to
the size of the bounding box
used to account for
any small mistakes in
the perception algorithm
object location estimate
increasing robustness of
the point remove filter.
However, a lot of the time,
this is unsatisfactory
for two reasons.
First, not all instances of
dynamic object classes that are
detected are actually moving.
Some vehicles may be parked at
the side of the road
and thus can be
considered as part of
the occupancy grid as
they are indeed static.
To handle this issue,
perception needs to use dynamic
object tracks to identify
those objects that are currently
static so the occupancy mapper
can avoid removing them.
Second, due to the computing time
required by the
Perception Stack usually,
the dynamic object is only
detected after some delay.
This results in the update to
the occupancy grid using
out-of-date object positions
which leads to
the bounding boxes missing
large portions of the Lidar
points on a dynamic vehicle.
Instead, we can rely
on predictions of
the moving objects motion
based on their object tracks.
The bounding box
is shifted forward
along the predicted
path leading to
a greater amount of the points of
the dynamic object being
removed from the most
recent Lidar scan.
After all this filtering,
the Lidar data is
finally ready to be
projected from 3D down to 2D.
Let's now look at
a simple yet effective technique
for this final step.
First, the Z value which
stores the height of
the Lidar point is set to
zero which collapses
the Lidar grid to a plane.
The 2D scan plane is divided
into the same grid pattern
as the occupancy grid.
For each cell of
the occupancy grid,
all the Lidar points that
fall within it are counted.
This value will then be used as
the measure of
the occupancy belief.
The more points in a cell,
the greater the chance that
there is a measurement
of a static object in that cell
of the occupancy grid.
You have made it to the end of
the final video discussing
the occupancy grid.
In this video, we saw
the filtering
techniques required to
make a Lidar point clouds
suitable for use as
an occupancy grid.
These include downsampling,
removing Lidar points
above the car,
ground plane removal and finally,
removal of dynamic objects.
Then, we saw a simple
yet effective method
to transform
3D Lidar data down to
2D belief maps which
as explained in
lesson one can be used to
create an occupancy grid.
Finally, we saw
all the different areas that
an occupancy grid must be tuned
in and adjusted carefully.
In the next video, we
will discuss
high-definition roadmaps,
specifically focusing on
the Lind lane map and
its uses for motion planning.
See you next time.